The DOM, D-O-M stands for Document Object Model.
Document Object Model, it kind of makes sense.
It's the model that our web document is being presented as.
So it's helpful to think of it as a tree and the tree has different nodes that come off
of it and each of these nodes are attached like we've seen a paragraph tag and a tag.
So the DOM represents a document with a logic tree.
Each branch of the tree ends in a node and each node contains objects.
DOM methods allow programmatic access to
the tree and then you can change the documents style, structure or content.
So why is it referred to as a tree?
This is because the DOM starts with a single parent item
that branches out into children items hierarchically.
The children items can also branch out into the smaller trees.
If we take a look here,
you can see this is laid out where at the top, we have HTML.
That's our top node and then we have
the head and we can open the head and
we see that anything we put in there is also in there.
So this is level two,
level two, and then we have a body.
So everything that we have written in between the body tags here,
will show up in between the body tags here.
This is the DOM that we're looking at.
The DOM holds all of our elements in the order that we've placed them.